---
title: "Abrazo Touch"
manual_version: 1
section: 4
mission: A
youtube: "6NMh82-UM8o"
redirect_from: "/v1/4-A"
---

{% include tm/mission_header.html %}

## Description

How we hold each other with respect and safety

### Steps

Warm up: Improvise without any touch/embrace at all. Switch roles. 

1. Tune in to movement and breath solo: pause on inhale, walk forward on exhale
2. Try to extend the exhale. Take more steps per exhale (without speeding up). 
3. Do the same thing side by side. Choose who sets the pace. Both pause on inhale, walk on exhale. 
4. Same thing, this time try to extend the exhale by taking more steps. 
5. Switch who's setting the pace and do 3-4 again. 
6. Review the First Figure. In practice hold, using just this material, let every shared inhale be a pause and every shared exhale be movement. 
7. Switch roles. 
8. Build the embrace: 
-- Stand in front of each other, hips facing hips. The follower sets the distance
-- Follower holds leader's upper arm, and leader encircles followers' body around ribcage.  
-- Leader offers left hand, follower takes it, leader encloses hand
-- Focus on breath, standing tall, sensing points of contact and making whatever adjustments are needed to be comfortable, for 3 breaths
-- Do it again trying a slightly different distance
-- Try the other role
9. Now, using the embrace you just built, lead them in the First Figure syncing inhales to pauses and exhales to movement. 
10. Interleave the Cross and the First Figure. 
11. Switch roles and do 9-10

### Tips

* Avoid eye gazing, it can feel weird. Follower's focus is leader's shirt, leader's hold soft focus taking in space around couple
* Leader's right arm should land in a neutral respectful place, about the level of the bra strap. 
* On handward side, make sure follower's right arm is comfortable, not squished. Helps if leader's arm is in plane of his own body. 
* Emphasize importance of comfort and adapting to different bodies.
* Everyone remember to stand tall! Align feet, hips, ribcage, head
* Think of the embrace is a process of exploring comfort in intimacy — not a frozen shape.

### Bonus!

* Thinking/Thinking. Together decide on a "code word" that you can use to whenever you notice your mind has wandered, that you say gently bring both partner's atttention back to the embrace. If you hear the word, repeat it to "reboot." For instance, "Thinking." "Thinking." or "Here." "Here." 
* Weight Game: Dance. When follower's left arm feels heavy to lead, leader raises left arm!
* Explore how asymmetry of embrace makes some moves easier
* Ask if they have questions and discuss!

### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}

{% include tm/mission_footer.html %}
