---
title: "Inline Walking (Caminar)"
manual_version: 1
section: 4
mission: E
youtube: "OM7zDFcjqOo"
redirect_from: "/v1/4-E"
---

{% include tm/mission_header.html %}

## Description

The deceptively simple challenge of walking together

### Steps

**Note:** The goal of this mission is walking in close embrace. You might think that this is so basic and elementary that it should be one of the first missions. However, it actually takes a lot of technique, which is why it is a level 4 mission -- and one you will probably be refining your whole tango life! 

**Also:** The foot circles in the video are an EXTRA CHALLENGE BONUS. They are not the meat of the mission. Have fun! 

1. Warm up with extensions. In practice embrace, follower extends backwards, returns. Leader shadows, matches.  
2. Now leader invites extension without moving his feet. Hint: solar plexus! 
3. Once the extension feels like it's being clearly communicated, the leader shadows and matches with free leg. 
4. Repeat 1-2 in a close embace. 
5. Now lead 2 steps inline, then side step. Repeat - this cycles the starting foot. Do this for about half a song. 
6. Try 4 steps inline.

### Tips

* Good moment to review Extension - stretching leg w/o placing weight
* For a backwards extension, it helps to focus on stretching the free leg's knee and foot as far away from base leg as possible, without moving the base leg at all
* When leading 2 or 4 steps in a row inline, be sure you lead BOTH extensions, not just the first one. 
* Every step needs an extension to be shared before the weight transfer begins. 
* For this one it can help to switch roles really often

### Bonus!

* Ready for a challenge? Lead/follow a circle with free legs before 1st step! Downstream, out, upstream, GO!

### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}

{% include tm/mission_footer.html %}
