---
title: "Vaiven"
manual_version: 1
section: 4
mission: G
youtube: "v_aLOHMilBE"
redirect_from: "/v1/4-G"
---

{% include tm/mission_header.html %}

## Description

Coming and going together is harder than it looks

### Steps

1. In practice hold, lead them: Inline advancing, weight change, inline retreating, weight change. 
2. Once it's working, do it in a on-the-body (no arms)
3. Then add arms, the full yummy embrace
4. Lead, interleaving with other elements, like Walking Inline or any Cross. 
5. Have them lead it slowly and carefully in practice hold
6. When that's working, add the embrace
7. Have them interleave it with other elements and improvise. 

### Tips

* Easiest to start with leader's left, follower's right (handwards side)
* Be sure hips are facing hips at beginning (Frontality!) 
* Do it REAL slowly the first several times
* When follower or leader steps forward, landing heels first works best 

### Bonus!

Tons of variations on this one!

* Try the other side: starting on hugward side
* Change the size: advancing bigger, retreating smaller
* Make the whole thing rotate counterclockwise, clockwise
* Play with rhythm - hardest but soo good! Mmm syncopation!
* Instead of advance/retreat, try 2x advance
* Try 2x retreat - deal with navigation puzzle! 
* Make one of the steps outside-partner instead of inline
* Layer these variations and use this element for a WHOLE SONG.

### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}

{% include tm/mission_footer.html %}
