---
title: "Ocho Cortado"
manual_version: 1
section: 5
mission: C
youtube: "23kTilDy84c"
redirect_from: "/v1/5-C"
---

{% include tm/mission_header.html %}

## Description

The oldest move in the book that never gets old

### Steps

1. Review the cross that they already know
2. Explain that this is similar BUT instead of crossing from a back extension, follower crosses from an open step
3. Help them do the weirdest part for follower: stand split weight in open step, pivot right leg inward, sucking the left leg into the cross
4. Help them do the entire follower's footwork solo
5. Take a practice hold and lead them in it
6. Lead with on-the-body contact with continuous tone, no arms
7. Add embrace and repeat til it's pretty consistent
8. Interleave with Rock-Step-Open to practice improvising
9. Help them practice isolating turning ribcage. Hold their hips still as they open right, left. 
10. In practice hold sync this ribcage opening/closing to follower's open, cross.
11. Help them lead it in practice hold
12. Have them practice-lead it on-the-body with embrace
13. Have them interleave it with Rock-Step-Open

### Tips

* When first doing it on-the-body, calibrate to 7-8
* Be sure the follower commits weight in the cross. Leader has to turn enough, follower has to be ready! 
* Leader's feet can stay very close to each other overall
* When leading, leader needs to clear legs out of space follower  wants to walk into. Have them figure out where to put legs.
* Helps to hold leader's hips while they practice turning ribcage to right, left. Sync this to follower's open, cross.
* Watch out! If leader opens ribcage too much, follower turns too far
* Think of final step as a turning a little to leader's left

### Bonus!

* Tap the rhythm: 123 PAUSE 123. Try to dance it in this rhythm!
* Find a more linear version and also a more circular version.
* Follower embellishments: ankle-touches, heel-flex
* Can you lead the whole thing without leader moving feet??

### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}

{% include tm/mission_footer.html %}
