---
title: "Classic Handward"
manual_version: 1
section: 6
mission: B
youtube: "NO23rta8pn8"
redirect_from: "/v1/6-B"
---

{% include tm__mission_header.html %}

## Description

Flowy way to turn big out of ochos. Lapiz is BONUS, nonessential! 

### Steps

1. Help them walk through follower's part: backwards ochos into back, side, forward. 
2. Lead them a few times in practice hold (ending with parada of forward step). 
3. Lead it in ping-pong-ball embrace.
4. Inteleave with other elements, like Dark Side and Paraday Play.
5. Help them do the leader's inward pivot that sets up the turn.
6. They lead it a few times in slow motion, gradually increasing the speed. 
7. They lead with the embrace a few times.
8. Now they can interleave with those other elements mentioned above. 

### Tips

* Helps for follower's back-side-forward to be boxy, like a square horseshoe (vs "round") and to use her side step to get to other side of leader's body
* Have them lead ochos in slow motion and tell them exactly when to pivot inward for the turn (after she's cleared the ocho)
* Leader to support follower through big back pivot, support and give it time
* As follower lands in forward step at end of turn, leader lowers - to invite a pivot.

### Bonus!

* Try adding a lapiz during the follower's back-side-front
* Introduce the concept of laterality (turning leader's side to the follower to invite a turn)

### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}

{% include mission_footer.html %}
