---
title: "On-The-Body [Apilado]"
manual_version: 1
section: 4
mission: C
youtube: "cH_oz7upr6k"
redirect_from: "/v1/4-c"
layout: mission
---



## Description

How to hold your partner with firm connection between the torsos ("on-the-body"), and how to maintain this while moving

### Steps

1. Both stand upright, solo, chin low, neck long. 
2. Move weight toward fronts of feet, then back. 
3. Now stand facing frontally and do the same thing finding contact at follower's sternum (no arms). (Turn noses to left to accommodate!) 
4. Explore different tones: Find a 1 on a scale from 1 to 10, a 10, a 5 
5. Calibrate to a 4. 
6. Maintain #4 tone while doing weight changes, side steps.
7. Find a different number, like #7, sync up and do side steps.  
8. Add arms and keep focus on contact between upper bodies
9. Switch roles. 

### Tips

* Do this in an out-of-the-way spot
* Keep knees and lower body joints soft
* Should be able to callibrate from 1-7 without moving feet. Moving feet further from partner gets you 8, 9, 10. 
* Stop anytime you feel tight or tense. Rest, breathe, stretch, smile
* If they bend forward awkwardly, or collapse their chest inward, reboot! Start over. 
* Definition: Tone is the intensity of presence toward each other (could be called density, pressure or "pushing")
* Beginners usually feel shy to push "hard." Encourage them with images: "like you're a bulldozer;" "try to push right through me"
* If both are women, lightly acknowledge "boob issue;" once addressed you'll find it doesn't interfere with exercise. 

### Bonus! 

* Try it with eyes closed!
* Send thoughts of happiness and well-being to yourself and your partner
* Synchronize breathing

### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}


