---
title: "Follower's Tuck"
manual_version: 1
section: 5
mission: F
youtube: "HGocMgu2ozY"
redirect_from: "/v1/5-f"
layout: mission
---



## Description

Super useful cute tiny back tuck or mini-"volcada"

### Steps

1. Help them do the follower's tuck solo a few times to warm up
2. Distingush tuck from a pivot-ocho, and have them do both
3. Have them feel and follow your lead as you invite each part distinctly and very slowly: 
-- the back extension from left-footed travelling crossed system ocho 
-- the tuck ("plop!") 
-- the untuck
4. Lead it several times in close embrace
5. Lead, interleaving with previous missions in this ring. 
6. Help them stumble-through it as a leader in practice hold: They go into crossed system and take (very small!) first step on left side (open side), lead the back extension, tuck, and untuck, then walk out in crossed system to the cross
7. Once it's clear, have them lead it in close embrace
8. Have them lead, interleaving with previous missions in this ring. 

### Tips

* Think of the tuck as a backward cross. It's complete when the weight is transferred, not before! 
* When leading it, it really helps to get where you can see the follower's legs in the mirror! 
* Helps if lead sets up with small ocho, keep weight on both legs, lead extension from belly
* To get tuck, use embrace to move her ribcage toward your armpit 
* It is like starting to fall for the follower. Extended leg catches balance on other side of foot
* Leader needs to be ready to receive some of follower's weight! 
* To lead untuck: leader brings belly button toward spine

### Bonus!

* Try it on the other side!
* Find it from parallel system. Hint - the leader gets to cross!
* Try to double up - lead two tucks in a row (fall right, fall left) 

### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}


