---
title: "Awkward Situations"
youtube: ""
tags:
  - Culture
---

# Awkward Situations #

1. Select a Situation
2. Complete the grid
3. Brainstorm 3 courses of actions: strategies, requests, feedback

Awkward Situations: 
* "Tired?" Sally is on the edge between staying and leaving the milonga. John walks over and asks her to dance verbally. She tells a white lie: “No, thank you. I’m tired” because she simply does not want to dance with John at this moment. John sits down next to her and strikes up a conversation, thinking that perhaps she would like to dance the next tanda. Then, Sally’s favorite music comes on, and Bob, her current Tango crush, cabeceos her from across the room.
* "Only by cabeceo" Bill tells Julie that he prefers to dance by cabeceo, even though he sometimes uses verbal invitations. Julie likes dancing with Bill, but finds it impossible to catch his eye. In her attempts to establish eye contact, Julie notices that Bill does not use the cabeceo consistently with others.
* "Goodnight" Cathy keeps trying to catch Tom’s eye and he keeps avoiding her because he only enjoys dancing with her when he’s in a certain mood, and he’s not in that mood tonight. Instead, he dances with others partners and has fun hanging out at a table with friends until the end of the night. On the way out, they meet and say goodnight.
* "Tango crush" Tina really loves to dance with Chris. His presence often becomes the focus of her entire evening. She thinks about him before the milonga, during the milonga, and after the milonga.  
* "Holding hug" After the song is over, Jennifer relaxes her arms and starts to move out of the embrace, but Henry keeps holding her close. There is a moment of struggle.
* "My feet" Robert carpooled to the milonga with Alice, whom he notices sitting with one shoe off. He approaches her and asks her to dance verbally. She gestures to her feet and says “No, my feet are tired.”

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}
{% include missions/cta-1.md %}
{% include missions/cta-2.md %}
