---
title: "The Barrida"
manual_version: 1
section: 6
mission: D
youtube: "PNm_ujWgbdA"
# redirect_from: "/v1/6-D"
layout: mission-vue
---



## Description

Foot drag surprise variation on backward ocho

### Steps

1. Practice isolation of right leg: from extended backwards to extended forwards and vice versa.
2. Lead the barrida slowly in practice hold.
-- Switch to crossed system and then lower to pause both with legs split-weight 
-- Pivot to make sure your (leader's) hips are facing barrida destination
-- Touch follower's forward foot with leader's knee on outside of her knee 
-- Invite follower's weight back, til front leg is free
-- Drag front leg until it is in a full backward extension
-- End with parada/pasada to forward ochos
3. Lead it in a comfortable close embrace. 
4. Interleave it with Backwards Ochos, Parada Play, Classic Handward. 
5. Help them through the leader's footwork: talk and walk through it in practice hold
6. Have them lead it a few times practice hold
7. They lead in close embrace
8. They interleave with other elements. 

### Tips

* When follower feels foot contact, push back into it, like velcro! 
* Leader crosses follower's ankle when he catches the foot
* Leader needs to turn hips away from follower toward the barrida's destination. 

### Bonus!

* Add leader's decoration after the parada! (see video) 
* Put the barrida in the context of the grapevine turn. Explore: which steps of the turn does it use? 
* Find a barrida that ends in the Cross. 
* Find a barrida with the other leg. 
* Puzzle: Where in the grapevine can a barrida happen?
* Puzzle: How many barridas can you find?


### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}


