---
title: "The Pugliese Turn"
manual_version: 1
section: 6
mission: E
youtube: "tjYQMnAkUfg"
# redirect_from: "/v1/6-E"
layout: mission-vue
---



## Description

The infinite turn 

### Steps

1. Lead them in the Classic Hugward a couple times.
2. Follow them in the Classic Hugward a couple times.
3. Explain this adds 1 more grapevine cycle to the Classic Hugward. 
4. Have them do the follower's footwork: F, O, B, O, F, O, B.
5. Lead the turn several times. It ends with parada-pasada. 
6. Lead them, interleaving with other turns and ochos. 
7. Show them leader's setup: crossing left foot over right then pivoting on both feet ending in right foot over left with back left foot free. They will need to practice it a bunch of times solo. 
8. Have them lead it slowly in practice hold several times, seeing how and when invitations are supported by footwork. 
9. Have them lead it in a ping-pong-ball embrace. 
10. Have them lead, interleaving it with other turns and ochos. 

### Tips

* Follower gotta focus and stay with leader…especially in back and side steps! 
* Helps to think of this as a boxy horseshoe (vs a circle) where side steps takes follow to other side of leader's body.
* Follower uses strong legs to push herself to the next step and keep energizing the turn, supporting the leader's balance
* It helps for leader to practice that leader's swivel-thing many times

### Bonus!

* How many times in a row can you repeat? 
* Can you find different leader's footwork? 
* Do the Pugliese turn to the left. How would you enter it? 
* Enter the turn on a side step. 
* Enter the turn on a backward step. 

### Watch the mission

{% include youtube_embed.html id=page.youtube %}


